54 8th ASEAN Energy Outlook 2023 - 2050
Demand Side
As with AEO7, demand-side modelling explores five foundational sectors – Residential, Transport, 
Industrial, Commercial, and Others (including agricultural and non-energy use). AEO8 utilises a detailed 
sector-by-sector modelling approach, with additional sub-sectoral or end-use devices where possible, 
including bottom-up modelling within some sectors. This method is favoured for the demand side as 
it effectively models energy policies, such as transitions to clean-cooking technologies and efficient 
appliances, energy savings in specific sub-sectors, the deployment of EVs, and biofuel mandates. By 
doing so, it enables changes in electricity demand to be factored into electricity sector modelling and 
fossil fuel demand, incorporating it into non-power process modelling. 
The AEO8 differs from the AEO7 for the commercial sector. Instead of disaggregating it by building 
types, AEO8 uses appliance types, similar to the residential sector. This modification was done to get 
more robust results in energy-intensive appliances, thus providing better policy recommendations. In 
the transportation sector fuel switching to emerging fuel types was also implemented including the 
penetration of hydrogen and ammonia to adapt NDCs for some AMS.
An additional exercise is undertaken in AEO8 to explore the least-cost optimisation impact on modelling 
end-use applications using GAMS. In the transport sector, the method is employed for optimising road 
vehicles fuelled by internal combustion engines (ICE), electricity, biofuels, and natural gas. Meanwhile, 
the residential and commercial sectors cover types of air conditioning (i.e., non-inverter, inverter, and 
smart inverter), and lighting (fluorescent, light emitting diode (LED), and smart LED). By using the LEAP 
results in ATS (called BAU in this exercise) as the inputs, and the same assumptions in RAS, the GAMS 
modelling projects the optimised TFEC and annual costs for these three sectors (called OPT in this 
exercise). 
Transformation Side 
Transformation or supply-side modelling examines both electricity generation and non-power 
processes (Figure 2.3). The resource module estimates overall fuel requirements by considering fossil 
fuel reserves and RE potential. For the non-power transformation, the energy is transformed through 
“modules” , which include coal production/mining, natural gas and crude oil production, gas processing, 
oil refining, LNG regasification, charcoal production, and hydrogen/ammonia/biofuel production.
The overall final electricity demand and the export targets drive all related transformation modules in 
power generation modelling to create just the right amount of electricity and capacity to be built in 
order to meet the requirements. LEAP and NEMO add the capacity expansion requirements defined 
by each AMS planning reserve margin, and the energy dispatch process adheres to the maximum 
availability and minimum utilisation of each generation technology type [37] . Several “Technologies” 
are modelled, representing the type of power plants, such as various types of coal and gas power 
plants, and all renewables, including solar, wind, geothermal, hydro, and waste, as well as nuclear. 
The non-power transformation will produce either primary or secondary fuels. “Primary Fuels” include 
types of coal and natural gas liquids, whilst the “Secondary Fuels” include various petroleum products 
(LPG, petroleum coke, gasoline, diesel, SAF), CNG, hydrogen, and others.
Electricity generation modelling follows two approaches: Simulation (BAS and ATS) and Optimisation 
(RAS and CNS). BAS forecasts the power sector capacity expansion and dispatch based on the historical 
behaviour of consumer production and the type of generation technologies in the last historical year. 
In ATS, capacity build follows the PDP of each AMS up to the last year specified and allows LEAP to add 
similar technologies following each country’s plan. In both scenarios, energy generation is addressed 
by merit order dispatch, and the capacity added for each type of technology is distributed according to 
the historical ratio of non-renewable to renewable technologies.