106
NATIONAL ENERGY BALANCE 2016
NOTES ON ELECTRICITY
NOTES ON COAL
RESERVE MARGIN Total capacity margin is defined as the amount of installed generation available over and above system peak 
load
RESERVE MARGIN = Installed Capacity – Peak Demand
                                                              Peak Demand
PEAK DEMAND The maximum power consumption registered by a customer or a group of customers or a system in a stated 
period of time such as a month or a year. The value may be the maximum instantaneous load or more usually, 
the average load over a designated interval of time, such as half an hour and is normally stated in kilowatts 
or megawatts.
INSTALLED CAPACITY Installed capacity is defined as the maximum possible capacity (nameplate rating) that can be provided by 
the plant.
DEPENDABLE CAPACITY
 The maximum capacity, modified for ambient limitations for a specified period of time, such as a month or 
a season.
AVAILABLE  CAPACITY Available capacity refers to the Latest Tested Net Capacity. It is the dependable capacity, modified for 
equipment limitation at any time. 
UNIT GENERATED (GROSS GENERATION) The total amount of electric energy produced by generating units and measured at the generating terminal 
in kilowatt-hours (kWh) or megawatt-hours (MWh).
UNIT SENT OUT FROM STATION(S)  
(NET GENERATION)
 
The amount of gross generation less the electrical energy consumed at the generating station(s) for station 
service or auxiliaries.
MEASURED RESOURCES Refers to coal for which estimates of the rank and quantity have been computed to a high degree of geologic 
assurance, from sample analyses and measurements from closely spaced and geologically well known sample 
sites.                                   
INDICATED RESOURCES Refers to coal for which estimates of the rank, quality, and quantity have been computed to a moderate 
degree of geologic assurance, partly from sample analyses and measurements and partly from reasonable 
geologic projections.
INFERRED RESOURCES Refers to coal of a low degree of geologic assurance in unexplored extensions of demonstrated resources for 
which estimates of the quality and size are based on geologic evidence and projection. Quantitative estimates 
are based on broad knowledge of the geologic character of the bed or region where few measurements 
or sampling points are available and on assumed continuation from demonstrated coal for which there is 
geologic evidence.