79
NATIONAL ENERGY BALANCE 2019 |
ENERGY FLOW CHART
NOTES ON ELECTRICITY
Reserve Margin Total capacity margin is defined as the amount of installed generation available over 
and above system peak load
Reserve Margin = Installed Capacity – Peak Demand
                                                Peak Demand
Peak Demand The maximum power consumption registered by a customer or a group of customers 
or a system in a stated period of time such as a month or a year. The value may be the 
maximum instantaneous load or more usually, the average load over a designated 
interval of time, such as half an hour and is normally stated in kilowatts or megawatts. 
Installed Capacity Installed capacity is defined as the maximum possible capacity (nameplate rating) 
that can be provided by the plant.
Dependable Capacity The maximum capacity, modified for ambient limitations for a specified period of time, 
such as a month or a season.
Available  Capacity Available capacity refers to the Latest Tested Net Capacity. It is the dependable 
capacity, modified for equipment limitation at any time. 
Unit Generated (Gross Generation) The total amount of electric energy produced by generating units and measured at 
the generating terminal in kilowatt-hours (kWh) or megawatt hours (MWh) 
Unit Sent Out From Station(s) (Net 
Generation)
The amount of gross generation less the electrical energy consumed at the generating 
station(s) for station service or auxiliaries.
NOTES ON COAL
Measured Reserves Refers to coal for which estimates of the rank and quantity have been computed to a 
high degree of geologic assurance, from sample analyses and measurements from 
closely spaced and geologically well-known sample sites.                                   
Indicated Reserves Refers to coal for which estimates of the rank, quality, and quantity have been 
computed to a moderate degree of geologic assurance, partly from sample analyses 
and measurements and partly from reasonable geologic projections.
Inferred Reserves Refers to coal of a low degree of geologic assurance in unexplored extensions of 
demonstrated resources for which estimates of the quality and size are based on 
geologic evidence and projection. Quantitative estimates are based on broad 
knowledge of the geologic character of the bed or region where few measurements 
or sampling points are available and on assumed continuation from demonstrated 
coal for which there is geologic evidence.
NOTES ON GDP
GDP Definition GDP can be measured by using three approaches namely Production, Expenditure 
and Income Approach. Conceptually, GDP by these three approaches produce the 
same results.
Production Approach GDP based on Production Approach is defined as value of total production of goods 
and services produced in the economy after deducting value of intermediate 
consumption. This approach is also known as value added approach.
Expenditure Approach GDP based on Expenditure Approach is the summation of Private Final Consumption, 
Government Final Consumption, Gross Fixed Capital Formation, Changes in Inventories 
and Valuables, Exports of goods and services minus Imports of goods and services. 
This approach measures value of goods and services used by final users on goods 
and services produced by resident.
Income Approach GDP based on Income Approach is the summation of all incomes accruing the 
production in economy.  Thus, this method enables factors of income and the return to 
factors of production to be measured by economic activity.  The income components 
are Compensation of Employees, Gross Operating Surplus and Taxes Less Subsidies 
on Production and Imports.
GDP by Income Approach is calculated as follows:
                  GDP by Income Approach = CE + GOS + (T - S)
 
where;
                  CE - Compensation of Employees
                  GOS - Gross Operating Surplus
                  (T - S) - Taxes Less Subsidies on Production and Imports