81
NATIONAL ENERGY BALANCE 2019 |
ENERGY FLOW CHART
Crude Oil and Petroleum Products (Barrels to Tonnes)
Product Barrels/tonne
Crude Oil - Import 7.33 
                 - Local 7.60 
Petrol 8.55 
Diesel 7.50 
Fuel Oil 6.60 
Kerosene 7.90 
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) 11.76 
Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) 7.91 
Aviation Gasoline (AV GAS) 9.05 
Non-Energy 6.50 
DEFINITION
The sources of energy covered in the Energy Balances are as below:
Natural Gas Is a mixture of gaseous hydrocarbons (mainly methane), which occur in either gas 
fields or in association with crude oil in oil fields.
LNG Is natural gas that is liquefied for ocean transportation and export.
Crude Oil Is natural product that is extracted from mineral deposits and consists essentially of 
many different non-aromatic hydrocarbons (paraffinic, cyclonic, etc.)
Aviation Gasoline (AV GAS) Is a special blended grade of gasoline for use in aircraft engines of the piston type. 
Distillation range normally falls within 30°C and 200°C. 
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Commercial LPG consists essentially of a mixture of propane and butane gases which 
are held in the liquid state by pressure or refrigeration.
Petrol Petroleum distillate used as fuel in spark- ignition internal combustion engines. 
Distillation range is within 30°C and 250°C. 
Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) Fuel for use in aviation gas turbines mainly refined from kerosene.  Distillation range 
within 150°C and 250°C.
Kerosene Is a straight-run fraction from crude oil, with boiling range from150°C to 250°C.  Its main 
uses are for domestic lighting and cooking. 
Diesel (or Gas Oil) Distillation falls within 200°C to 340°C.  Diesel fuels for high-speed diesel engines (i.e. 
automotive) are more critical of fuel quality than diesel for stationary and marine 
diesel engines. Marine oil usually consists of a blend of diesel oil and some residual 
(asphaltic) material.
Fuel Oil Heavy distillates, residues or blends of these, used as fuel for production of heat and 
power.  Fuel oil production at the refinery is essentially a matter of selective blending 
of available components rather than of special processing. Fuel oil viscosities vary 
widely depending on the blend of distillates and residues.
Non-Energy Products Refer mainly to naphtha bitumen and lubricants, which are obtained by the refinery 
process from petroleum but used for non-energy purposes. Naphtha is a refined or 
party refined light distillate, which is further, blended into motor gasoline or used as 
feed-stock in the chemical industry. Bitumen is a viscous liquid or solid, non-volatile 
and possesses waterproofing and adhesive properties. Lubricating oil is used for 
lubricating purposes and has distillation range within 380°C to 500°C.
Refinery Gas   The gas released during the distillation of crude oil and comprises methane, ethane, 
propane and butane. Most refinery gas is retained in the refinery and used as fuel in 
plant operations.
Coal and Coke Solid fuels consisting essentially of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen sulphur. Coal in the 
energy balances is mainly bituminous coal (medium grade in terms of energy 
content) and some anthracite (high quality hard coal). Coke is obtained from coal 
by heating at high temperature in the absence of air.