92
NATIONAL ENERGY BALANCE 2016
INTRODUCTION
Energy Commission has successfully conducted a survey with 2,000 households in 
Peninsular Malaysia with the aim to have an in-depth understanding of energy consumption 
pattern within households. There are many variables and factors that affect a household’s 
energy consumption of which were not properly identified before. This survey enabled us 
to have a better view of where, when and how the energy is consumed within households. 
The number of samples is calculated based on the actual number of households in Malaysia. Hence, 2,000 households were 
selected across Peninsular Malaysia for this survey. The samples were broken down to four (4) main regions, namely Central, 
South, East Coast, and North, and then further broken down to ten (10) types of houses. The energy consumption for each 
household is categorised into fuel types (natural gas, LPG, kerosene and electricity) and five (5) end-uses as described by the 
IEA (International Energy Agency).
Overall, electricity, LPG and natural gas are the major form of energy used in households in Peninsular Malaysia, where 
electricity accounted for more than 80% of energy consumption. Electricity consumption is distributed evenly among the 
four regions of Peninsular Malaysia, whereas LPG showed a slightly bigger contribution from the central region. In terms of 
end-uses, appliances have the biggest share in energy consumption, followed by air-conditioning system, cooking, lighting, and 
water heating. Appliances category covers a wide range of items which explains the high percentage of appliances in household’s 
energy consumption.
2,000 households
10 types of house
5 categories
53 electrical 
appliances
Historical trend from
2011 to 2014
Urban: Kangar
Urban: Alor Star
Rural: Lunas
PERLIS
KEDAH
Urban: Petaling Jaya
Rural: Banting, Kuala Selangor
SELANGOR
Urban: Ipoh
Rural: Grik
PERAK
Urban: Butterworth
Rural: Penaga
PENANG
Urban: Kota Bharu
Rural: Bachok
KELANTAN
Urban: Bandar Baru Nilai
Rural: Labu
NEGERI SEMBILAN
Urban: Batu Pahat
Rural: Muar, Segamat
JOHOR
KUALA LUMPUR
Urban: Kuala Terengganu
Rural: Kemaman
TERENGGANU
Urban: Kuantan
Rural: Rompin
PAHANG
LOCATIONS