105
NATIONAL ENERGY BALANCE 2016
The net calorific value (NCV) was chosen as the basis of calculations rather than the gross calorific value (GCV).  The Joule was used as the rigorous 
accounting unit, while the “tonnes of oil equivalent” (1 toe= 41.84 Gigajoules) was chosen as the final unit for presentation in the Energy Balance.
ENERGY BALANCE FORMAT
The rows of the Energy Balance tables contain the following items:
PRIMARY SUPPLY Refers to supply of energy that has not undergone the transformations / conversion process within the 
country.
PRIMARY PRODUCTION (1) Refers to the quantity of fuels extracted.  Data for natural gas excludes the amount of reinjected and flared 
gas. Gross production of hydro is shown in conventional fuel equivalent input.  
GAS FLARING, REINJECTION & USE (2) Refers to the quantity of gas flared, reinjected into the gas fields and use for production purpose.
IMPORTS (3) AND EXPORTS (4) Refers to the amount of primary and secondary energy obtained from, or supplied to other countries.  In the 
energy balance format, imports always carry a positive and export a negative sign.
BUNKERS (5) Refers to the amount of fuels delivered to ocean-going ships of all flags engaged in international traffic.
STOCK CHANGE (6)
Refers to the difference between the amounts of fuel in stocks at the beginning and end of year and should 
ideally cover producers, importers and industrial consumers.  At this stage, however, only oil companies’ 
stock are taken into account.  A negative sign indicates net increase while a positive sign indicates net 
decrease in stocks.
TOTAL Under primary supply, ‘total’ is the addition of columns to obtain total availability.  Under transformation, 
‘total’ is the addition of columns to obtain transformation and conversion losses.
GAS PLANTS (9) Shows the input of natural gas into the LNG, MDS and GPP-LPG plants and their respective outputs.
REFINERIES (10), POWER STATIONS AND  
CO-GENERATION & PRIVATE LICENSEES (11)
Shows the input of any energy product (negative sign) for the purpose of converting it to one or more 
secondary products (positive sign).
LOSSES AND OWN USE (12)
Refers to losses of electrical energy and natural gas which occur outside the utilities and plants (i.e. 
distribution losses) and the consumption of energy by utilities and plants for operating their installation (i.e. 
electricity for operating auxiliary equipment and petroleum products used in the crude distillation process 
respectively).  It does not, however, include conversion loss that is accounted for in the ‘total’ column.
SECONDARY SUPPLY (14) Refers to the supply of energy from the transformation process and after deducting the energy sector’s own 
use and losses, including power station use.
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL (15 & 16) Not only refers to energy used within households and commercial establishments but includes government 
buildings and institutions. 
INDUSTRY (17) Is a very broad-based sector ranging from manufacturing to mining and construction.  Diesel sales through 
distributors are assumed to be to industrial consumers.
TRANSPORT (18) Basically refers to all sales of motor gasoline and diesel from service stations and sales of aviation fuel. It also 
includes diesel and motor gasoline sold directly to government and military.
AGRICULTURE (19) Covers agriculture and forestry.
FISHERY (20) May involve the capture of wild fish or raising fish through fish farming or aquaculture.
NON-ENERGY USE (21) Use of products resulting from the transformation process for non-energy purpose (i.e. bitumen/lubricants, 
asphalt/greases) and use of energy products (such as natural gas) as industrial feedstocks.
FINAL USE (22) Refers to the quantity of energy of all kinds delivered to the final user.
I) N on-commercial energy such as firewood and other biomass fuels have been excluded in the energy balance until more reliable data are made  
 available.
II) T he output side of the final user’s equipment of device i.e. useful energy will not be dealt with in the balance as it will involve assessing the  
 efficiencies of end - use equipment operating under various differ ent conditions.
NOTES OF ENERGY BALANCE