78
| NATIONAL ENERGY BALANCE 2019
ENERGY FLOW CHART
NOTES ON ENERGY BALANCE
ENERGY BALANCE FORMAT
The rows of the Energy Balance tables contain the following items:
Primary Supply refers to supply of energy that has not undergone the transformations / conversion 
process within the country.
Primary Production (1) refers to the quantity of fuels extracted.  Data for natural gas excludes the amount 
of reinjected and flared gas. Gross production of hydro is shown in conventional fuel 
equivalent input.  
Gas Flaring,  Reinjection & Use (2) refers to the quantity of gas flared, reinjected into the gas fields and use for production 
purpose.
Imports (3) and Exports (4) refer to the amount of primary and secondary energy obtained from, or supplied to 
other countries.  In the energy balance format, imports always carry a positive and 
export a negative sign. 
Bunkers (5) refer to the amount of fuels delivered to ocean-going ships of all flags engaged in 
international traffic.
Stock Change (6) refers to the difference between the amounts of fuel in stocks at the beginning and 
end of year and should ideally cover producers, importers and Industry consumers.  
At this stage, however, only oil companies’ stock are taken into account.  A negative 
sign indicates net increase while a positive sign indicates net decrease in stocks.
Total  under primary supply, ‘total’ is the addition of columns to obtain total availability.  
Under transformation, ‘total’ is the addition of columns to obtain transformation and 
conversion losses.
Gas Plants (9) shows the input of natural gas into the LNG, MDS and GPP-LPG plants and their 
respective outputs.
Refineries (10),  power stations and Co-
generation & Private licensees (11)
show the input of any energy product (negative sign) for the purpose of converting it 
to one or more secondary products (positive sign).
Losses and Own Use (12) refers to losses of electrical energy and natural gas which occur outside the utilities 
and plants (i.e. distribution losses) and the consumption of energy by utilities and 
plants for operating their installation (i.e. electricity for operating auxiliary equipment 
and petroleum products used in the crude distillation process respectively).  It does 
not, however, include conversion loss that is accounted for in the ‘total’ column.
Residential and Commercial (15 & 16) not only refers to energy used within households and commercial establishments but 
includes government buildings and institutions. 
Industry (17) is a very broad-based sector ranging from manufacturing to mining and construction.  
Diesel sales through distributors are assumed to be to Industry consumers.
Transport (18) basically refers to all sales of motor gasoline and diesel from service stations and sales 
of aviation fuel.  It also includes diesel and motor gasoline sold directly to government 
and military.
Agriculture (19) covers agriculture and forestry.
Fishery (20) may involve the capture of wild fish or raising fish through fish farming or aquaculture.
Non-Energy Use (21) use of products resulting from the transformation process for non-energy purpose (i.e. 
bitumen/lubricants, asphalt/greases) and use of energy products (such as natural 
gas) as Industry feedstocks
Final use (22) refer to the quantity of energy of all kinds delivered to the final user.
Imports (3) and Exports (4) refer to the amount of primary and secondary energy obtained from, or supplied to 
other countries.  In the energy balance format, imports always carry a positive and 
export a negative sign. 
I)  Non-commercial energy such as firewood and other biomass fuels have been excluded in the energy balance until more 
reliable data are made available.
II)   The output side of the final user’s equipment of device i.e. useful energy will not be dealt with in the balance as it will involve 
assessing the efficiencies of end - use equipment operating under various different conditions.
The net calorific value (NCV) was chosen as the basis of calculations rather than the gross calorific value (GCV).  The Joule 
was used as the rigorous accounting unit, while the “tonnes oil equivalent” (1 toe= 41.84 Gigajoules) was chosen as the final 
unit for presentation in the Energy Balance.