29
Innovations
Regulatory Provisions
Both types of water heaters are also 
covered by the MS 1597-2-35:2010 
for instantaneous heaters and MS 
1597-2-21:2015 for storage units. 
“Instantaneous water heaters are 
also required to have built-in RCDs,” 
Ir Fairus noted, adding that complying  
these standards are requirements for 
manufacturers, suppliers and importers 
of water heater units in the country.
She also highlighted that the use of 
the innovative isolation barrier was 
proposed and discussed with industry 
stakeholders in 2015. 
In addition, the Guideline for the 
Installation and Maintenance of 
Water Heater Systems has also been 
developed. This guideline for industry 
players and consumers ensures proper 
safety and maintenance procedures 
are followed for water heaters.
Tested and Approved
Everyone has a role in ensuring 
water heater electrical safety. For 
manufacturers and producers, she 
urged a change in focus from profit 
to public and consumer safety 
by meeting the minimum safety 
requirements for water heaters. “If 
they can meet a higher standard, 
that is even better for everyone,” 
she said.
“For consumers, please buy only 
water heaters (and other electrical 
appliances) that have been tested and 
approved by the Energy Commission. 
Don’t buy a cheap, untested and 
unverified product because of the price 
as it could cost more in the long run.” 
Approved devices and appliances have a SIRIM-ST 
safety label in line with stipulations in the Electricity 
Regulations 1994. This indicates that such 
appliances have gone through rigorous procedures to 
ensure that they are safe for public use.” 
An isolation barrier is an 
innovative device used in 
storage water heaters to limit 
the amount of leaked current 
to enter or leave the circuit, 
mitigating any chances of 
electrical accidents. While the 
safety systems implemented 
may not seem very high-tech, 
they are innovative and highly 
effective solutions to industry 
and consumer protection.
An exploded water heater as a result of improper installation. The Energy Commission provides 
guidelines for proper and safe water heater installation to prevent accidents like these.