27
Innovations
A
lmost every Malaysian home has one, yet as much as they are part 
and parcel of everyday life. water heaters can also be one of the most 
dangerous appliances around, as they are capable of electrocuting 
users. Ir Fairus Abd Manaf, Head of Electrical Equipment, Department of 
Electrical Safety Regulation of the Energy Commission discusses some of 
the innovative ways consumers are kept safe from water heater accidents.
and earthing serve as the primary 
electrical safety protection and the 
first line of defence in case of a 
malfunction in the water heater.
Isolating Leakages
There are two types of water heaters 
approved for use in Malaysia; the 
instantaneous water heater and the 
storage water heater. In oder to sell 
them, the manufacturers and suppliers 
have to ensure that they meet 
minimum standards and requirements.
As for imported instantaneous water 
heaters, they have to comply with the 
IEC (International Electrotechnical 
Commission) 60335-2-35:2006 
with modification. “It is marked as 
‘with modification’ because the hose 
must be made from non-metallic/non-
conductive materials and a minimum 
length of 1 metre,” Ir Fairus explained.
Water Heater Statistics 2016
Number of C oA for 
Imported W Ater HeA ters
41
Number  of  CoA for L oCALLY-
m ANuf ACtured  WAter  HeAters
338
Includes instantaneous and storage water heater, as well as new  
and renewed Certificate of Approvals (CoA)
Source: Energy Commission
Between 2013 and September 
2016, six cases of electrocutions 
related to water heaters have been 
recorded in Malaysia. In response to 
this, efforts have been stepped up 
to improve safety.
For instance, the Electricity Regulations 
1994 requires all domestic installations 
to have an effective earthing system 
such as earth chamber and an 
appropriately rated Residual Current 
Device (RCD), which detects the leak of 
dangerous current caused by defective 
equipment. The regulation also requires 
all power supply to water heaters and 
wet areas to be mandatorily equipped 
with an RCD of a sensitivity of less than 
or equal to 10mA.
Proper installation and maintenance 
of earthing system is critical to safety. 
Consumers are therefore encouraged 
to check their RCD. The RCD 