Guideline for the Design, Installation, Inspection, T esting, 
Operation and Maintenance of Water Heater Systems GP/ST/No.6/2016
9
CHAPTER 3: TERMS AND DEFINITIONS 
3.1 Normal Operation
 Operation of the appliance while supplied with water, the flow being adjusted to attain 
the highest outlet water temperature without operation of the thermal cut-out.
3.2 Instantaneous Water Heater
 Stationary appliance for heating water while it flows through the appliance.
 Note: instantaneous water heater are referred to as water heater.
3.3 Closed Water Heater
 Instantaneous water heater intended to operate at the pressure of the water system, the 
flow of water being controlled by one or more valves in the outlet system.
 Note: the operating pressure may be the output pressure of a reducing or boosting 
device.
3.4 Open-outlet Water Heater
 Instantaneous water heater in which the flow of water is controlled by a valve in the inlet 
pipe, there being no valve in the outlet pipe.
3.5 Bare-element Water Heater
 Instantaneous water heater in which uninsulated heating elements are immersed in the 
water.
3.6 Rated Pressure
 Water pressure assigned to the appliance by the manufacturer.
3.7 Flow Switch
 Switch that operates in response to a flow of water.
3.8 Pressure Switch
 Switch that operates in response to a change in pressure.
3.9 Solar Water Heater
 Complete assembly of subsystems and components necessary to convert solar energy 
into thermal energy for the heating of water and may include an auxiliary heat source 
(ISO 9459-2:1995).
 (water heater which includes a collector and storage tank, and uses the sun’s thermal 
energy to heat water).
3.10 Storage Water Heater
 An appliance intended for heating water in a thermally well insulated container, for 
long-term storage of the heated water, and provided with a device to control the water 
temperature. 
3.11 Water Heater Systems
 Complete system consists of heat generation, heat storage, electrical connections from 
mains, plumbing connections, and mechanical fittings.